h2. ScalaCollider-UGens

h3. statement

An extension project to ScalaCollider which aims at providing a language-neutral (XML based) UGen description database as well as a code synthesizer that generates class files for ScalaCollider. It is (C)opyright 2008-2011 by Hanns Holger Rutz. All rights reserved. ScalaCollider-UGens is released under the "GNU General Public License":http://github.com/Sciss/ScalaColliderUGens/blob/master/licenses/ScalaCollider-License.txt and comes with absolutely no warranties. To contact the author, send an email to @contact at sciss.de@

Big thanks to Mirko Stocker for the "Scala-Refactoring Library":http://scala-refactoring.org/ which provides the AST-to-source code converter.

h3. compilation

ScalaCollider-UGens builds with xsbt (sbt 0.10) against Scala 2.9.1. to compile run @xsbt update compile@. in order to keep up with the scala-refactoring snapshots, you may need to wipe the Ivy2 cache before updating: @rm -r ~/.ivy2/cache/org.scala-refactoring@

h3. running

The UGen descriptions reside in XML files. The project already comes with a file for the standard UGens included with a plain SuperCollider installation. You will need to create additional XML files if you wish to compile sources for third party UGens.

To synthesize the source code for a given UGen description XML file, run as follows:

pre. $ xsbt
> run -d path/to/scala/source/output path/to/descriptions.xml

(Note that currently xsbt seems to exit with an @InterruptedException@ -- you can ignore this).

The generated source files then need to be compiled against ScalaCollider (as of this writing, you need to use the @Synthetic4@ branch). In the future, we might provide a minimum stub instead for the compilation.

h3. format

The format yet needs to be documented, but if you take a close look at @standard-ugens.xml@ you can figure out the nesting structure and the arguments allowed.
